---
title: "11.2-U8"
weight: 5
aliases: [/releasenotes/core/truenas/11.2/11.2u8/]
---

**March 3, 2020**

iXsystems is pleased to announce the availability of TrueNAS 11.2-U8! This is primarily a bug fix release to address some remaining issues in the 11.2-STABLE train and prepare TrueNAS users for an important incoming change to AD/LDAP connectivity when using Microsoft Windows.

Before updating, contact iXsystems Technical Support for a pre-update health check and to answer any technical questions regarding this update. You can contact Support by calling 1-855-GREP-4-iX or emailing support@ixsystems.com.

## Known Impacts

The default ACL on new Windows datasets was changed from:

`owner@:rwxpDdaARWcCos:fd:allow`
`group@:rwxpDdaARWcCos:fd:allow`
`everyone@:rxaRc:fd:allow`

to:

`owner@:rwxpDdaARWcCos:fd:allow`
`group@:rwxpDdaARWcCos:fd:allow`
`everyone@::fd:allow`

This means that world is no longer being granted read privileges by default on newly created SMB shares. If you need to add “read” to “world” on a newly-created dataset, run the command:

`setfacl -m everyone@:rxaRc:fd:allow /mnt/path/to/dataset`

## Known Issues

TrueNAS NFSv4 exports do not work in a VMWare cluster at this time. NFSv3 will need to be used as a work-around.

The hubiC cloud service has suspended creation of new accounts .

The Mega cloud service is currently broken. The new version of rclone which fixes this will be available in 11.3.

When performing an update on HA systems, the **Apply Pending Updates** button does not apply the update. Instead, select the *Check Now* option.

If the email address configured in **Services > S.M.A.R.T. > Email** differs from the root user email address configured in **Account > Users**, only the root user email address will receive an email alert when there is a S.M.A.R.T. failure. If these email addresses need to differ, the workaround is to configure **System > Alert Services**.

## Notable Bug Fixes & Improvements

Add support for LDAP channel binding, fixing issues with upcoming Microsoft Changes to Windows .

Fixes to memory leaks when using SNMPD [ NAS-103957 ]

Fix a kernel panic in L2ARC prefetch failure [ NAS-100932]

Fix an issue with collectd spamming system logs [ NAS-104580 ]

Multiple fixes for encrypted pools [ NAS-104537 , NAS-104506 , NAS-104502 ]

View all 30 tickets for TrueNAS 11.2-U8

Tickets can be viewed at our [**Open Issues**](https://jira.ixsystems.com/projects/NAS/issues/) page.
