---
title: "11.2-U5.1"
weight: 9
aliases: [/releasenotes/core/truenas/11.2/11.2u5.1/]
---

**August 7, 2019**

iXsystems is pleased to announce the general availability of TrueNAS 11.2-U5.1. This point release provides some NFS fixes and updates the Asigra service to version 14.1.0.2.

Before updating, contact iXsystems Technical Support for a pre-update health check and to answer any technical questions regarding this update. You can contact Support by calling 1-855-GREP-4-iX or emailing support@ixsystems.com.

## Improvements

+ [NAS-102229] – Add checks for NFS overlapping networks
+ [NAS-102496] – Upgrade Asigra service from 14.0.0.1 to 14.1.0.2

## Bug Fixes

+ [NAS-102648] – Add used LUN IDs to migration list
+ [NAS-102663] – Properly apply NFS configuration changes
 
## Known Issues

TrueNAS NFSv4 exports do not work in a VMWare cluster at this time. NFSv3 will need to be used as a work-around.

Cloud providers are third-party commercial vendors not directly affiliated with iXsystems. Cloud Sync Tasks which connect to cloud providers are provided on a best-effort basis. Cloud providers may charge for their services, change their rates, or disable access to their services at any time. Please investigate and fully understand the provider’s pricing policies and services before creating any Cloud Sync task. iXsystems is not responsible for any charges incurred from the use of third-party vendors with the Cloud Sync feature.

When configuring Microsoft OneDrive Cloud, OAuth populates all of the credentials except for the “Drive ID”. To determine the Drive ID, log into [OneDrive](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-365/onedrive/online-cloud-storage), copy the string after cid= from the browser address bar, and enter that value as the Drive ID. This bug will be fixed for 11.2-U6.

The hubiC cloud service has suspended creation of new accounts.

Amazon Cloud Drive is known to be broken and may be removed from a future release.

The Mega cloud service is currently broken. The new version of rclone which fixes this will be available in 11.3.

Authorization refresh is not working for Box and will be fixed for 11.2-U6. As a workaround, reauthenticate should the authorization stop working.

When performing an update on HA systems, the **Apply Pending Updates** button does not apply the update. Instead, select the *Check Now* option.

If the email address configured in **Services > S.M.A.R.T. > Email** differs from the root user email address configured in **Account > Users**, only the root user email address will receive an email alert when there is a S.M.A.R.T. failure. If these email addresses need to differ, the workaround is to configure **System > Alert Services**.

Tickets can be viewed at the [**iXsystems & FreeNAS Redmine**](https://redmine.ixsystems.com/issues/) page.
