---
title: "11.2-U7"
weight: 6
aliases: [/releasenotes/core/truenas/11.2/11.2u7/]
---

**December 3, 2019**

iXsystems is pleased to announce the general availability of TrueNAS 11.2-U7. This is a bug fix release which also addresses recent Samba vulnerabilities.

Before updating, contact iXsystems Technical Support for a pre-update health check and to answer any technical questions regarding this update. You can contact Support by calling 1-855-GREP-4-iX or emailing support@ixsystems.com.

## Known Impacts

The default ACL on new Windows datasets was changed from:

`owner@:rwxpDdaARWcCos:fd:allow`
`group@:rwxpDdaARWcCos:fd:allow`
`everyone@:rxaRc:fd:allow`

to:

`owner@:rwxpDdaARWcCos:fd:allow`
`group@:rwxpDdaARWcCos:fd:allow`
`everyone@::fd:allow`

This means that world is no longer being granted read privileges by default on newly created SMB shares. If you need to add “read” to “world” on a newly-created dataset, run the command:

`setfacl -m everyone@:rxaRc:fd:allow /mnt/path/to/dataset`

## Known Issues

TrueNAS NFSv4 exports do not work in a VMWare cluster at this time. NFSv3 will need to be used as a work-around.

The hubiC cloud service has suspended creation of new accounts.

The Mega cloud service is currently broken. The new version of rclone which fixes this will be available in 11.3.

When performing an update on HA systems, the **Apply Pending Updates** button does not apply the update. Instead, select the *Check Now* option.

If the email address configured in **Services > S.M.A.R.T. > Email** differs from the root user email address configured in **Account > Users**, only the root user email address will receive an email alert when there is a S.M.A.R.T. failure. If these email addresses need to differ, the workaround is to configure **System > Alert Services**.

## Improvements

+ NAS-102973 Remove redundant HA ping alerts
+ NAS-103252 Alert on absent enclosure power supply
+ NAS-103533 Include UPS name when sending UPS alert email
+ NAS-103612 Add entry to autosnap.py log when VMware host is down
+ NAS-103615 Add zsh bindkey for searching recent commands
+ NAS-103657 Update Samba to 4.9.15 to address CVE-2019-10218, CVE-2019-14833, and CVE-2019-14847
+ NAS-103785 Improve “Enclosure Status Is Not Healthy” alert

## Bug Fixes

+ NAS-100932 Fix for kernel panic in zio_change_priority()
+ NAS-102893 Avoid unnecessary Samba starts and stops when editing System Dataset configuration
+ NAS-102991 Use correct defaults for CIFS share in APIv1
+ NAS-103019 Fix regression with unified config when upgrading from 11.1 to 11.2
+ NAS-103021 Restart smartd on Check Interval change
+ NAS-103046 Fix Kerberos keytab string handling
+ NAS-103070 Make the installer clear old pool labels from new partitions
+ NAS-103084 Fix enclosure alert typo
+ NAS-103088 Fix license status alert crash when standby controller does not have license
+ NAS-103195 Update vfs_noacl description in Guide
+ NAS-103208 Ensure middlewared is the last service to stop
+ NAS-103249 Relate enclosure alert to failover
+ NAS-103255 Fix issue with multiple iSCSI Authorized Accesses
+ NAS-103297 Refuse to bind netatalk to invalid IP addresses
+ NAS-103336 Fix quota handling in vfs_ixnas.c and fake_file.c
+ NAS-103368 Fix bug when rebuilding directory service cache from UI
+ NAS-103392 Fix bug in domain provisioning
+ NAS-103408 Fix missing information in tickets generated by proactive support
+ NAS-103422 Fix ordering of adding userspace quota and home datasets in ixnas
+ NAS-103500 Do not hide disk update validation errors
+ NAS-103534 Clear AD config file before validating credentials
+ NAS-103539 Fix traceback in arc_summary.py
+ NAS-103605 Correctly set initial value for extent path in legacy UI
+ NAS-103611 Use the correct product name in autosnap.py
+ NAS-103613 Remove stale VMware snapshot alerts when updating or deleting VMware host
+ NAS-103643 Fix issue with dismissing an alert
+ NAS-103653 Fix issue with display of VMware snapshot alert
+ NAS-103654 Ensure new certificates are applied after failover
+ NAS-103678 Do not run virtualized installation check at boot
+ NAS-103830 Do not run nfs_bindaddr.py on standby controller
+ NAS-103849 Only display unique Kerberos principals in dropdown menus of legacy UI
+ NAS-103855 Fix typo in zfs_vnops.c
+ NAS-103923 Fix parsing of Directory Services configuration files
+ NAS-103974 Fix alerts not working when active controller is node B and standby controller is down
+ NAS-104104 Fix leaking of socket fds in ws4py

Tickets can be viewed at our [**Open Issues**](https://jira.ixsystems.com/projects/NAS/issues/) page.
