---
title: "11.2-U6.1"
weight: 7
aliases: [/releasenotes/core/truenas/11.2/11.2u6.1/]
---

**October 24, 2019**

iXsystems is pleased to announce the general availability of TrueNAS 11.2-U6.1. This point release fixes a bug that prevented the NFS service from reflecting changes made in the web UI and addresses a Python memory leak.

Before updating, contact iXsystems Technical Support for a pre-update health check and to answer any technical questions regarding this update. You can contact Support by calling 1-855-GREP-4-iX or emailing support@ixsystems.com.

## Bug Fixes

+ NAS-103454 Fix bug that prevented netcli network changes on TrueNAS single controllers
+ NAS-103496 Properly handle rc.conf.local on TrueNAS HA systems
+ NAS-103579 Start rrdcached daemon after failover

## Improvement

+ NAS-103407 Fix asyncio + futures memory leak on Python 3.6
 
## Known Impacts

The default ACL on new Windows datasets was changed from:

`owner@:rwxpDdaARWcCos:fd:allow`

`group@:rwxpDdaARWcCos:fd:allow`

`everyone@:rxaRc:fd:allow`

to:

`owner@:rwxpDdaARWcCos:fd:allow`

`group@:rwxpDdaARWcCos:fd:allow`

`everyone@::fd:allow`

This means that world is no longer being granted read privileges by default on newly created SMB shares. If you need to add “read” to “world” on a newly-created dataset, run the command:

`setfacl -m everyone@:rxaRc:fd:allow /mnt/path/to/dataset`

## Known Issues

TrueNAS NFSv4 exports do not work in a VMWare cluster at this time. NFSv3 will need to be used as a work-around.

The hubiC cloud service has suspended creation of new accounts.

The Mega cloud service is currently broken. The new version of rclone which fixes this will be available in 11.3.

When performing an update on HA systems, the “Apply Pending Updates” button does not apply the update. Instead, select the “Check Now” option.

If the email address configured in **Services > S.M.A.R.T. > Email** differs from the root user email address configured in **Account > Users**, only the root user email address will receive an email alert when there is a S.M.A.R.T. failure. If these email addresses need to differ, the workaround is to configure **System > Alert Services**.

Tickets can be viewed at our [**Open Issues**](https://jira.ixsystems.com/projects/NAS/issues/) page.
