---
title: "3.3.0"
weight: 18
aliases: [/releasenotes/vcenterplugin/3.3.0/]
---

**November 24, 2020**

iXsystems is pleased to release version 3.3.0 of the TrueNAS vCenter plugin!
This is a maintenance release of the plugin, designed to improve functionality and add support for TrueNAS 12.0 host systems. As part of this maintenance release, additional testing resources have been devoted to the plugin and several large-scale improvements have also been identified for future plugin versions.

Please note that deploying the TrueNAS vCenter Plugin requires TrueNAS host systems with version **11.3 or later** installed and **vCenter 6.7-U3 or earlier** deployed. To install or update to the 3.3.0 TrueNAS vCenter plugin, please contact iXsystems Support.

{{< expand "Contacting iXsystems Support" "v" >}}
{{< include file="static/includes/General/iXsystemsSupportContact.html.part" html="true" >}}
{{< /expand >}}

## Changelog

### Improvement

* [VCP-78](https://jira.ixsystems.com/browse/VCP-78) - Convert to TrueNAS API 2.0 for improved compatibility and reliability with TrueNAS 11.3 and 12.0

### Bug

* [VCP-84](https://jira.ixsystems.com/browse/VCP-84) - vCenter plugin does not function with TrueNAS 11.3 unless the legacy API 1.0 endpoint is enabled

## Known Issues

* vCenter 7.0b has issues rendering the plugin interface ([VCP-89](https://jira.ixsystems.com/browse/VCP-89)). This is scheduled to be resolved in a future plugin update, but it is recommended for customers to continue using vCenter 6.7-U3 or earlier with this plugin.
* *https* has been disabled for the 3.3.0 release ([VCP-105](https://jira.ixsystems.com/browse/VCP-105)) due to an issue with connector initialization failures and conflicts with the Apache HTTPClient dependency. TrueNAS users **must enable http on their TrueNAS system for the 3.3.0 plugin to connect properly.** To verify TrueNAS 11.3 or 12.0 can connect, log in to the web interface, go to **System > General**, and make sure *Web Interface HTTP > HTTPS Redirect* is unset. This issue is scheduled for resolution in [plugin version 4.0](https://jira.ixsystems.com/projects/VCP/versions/12108).
* The plugin replication feature has been removed due to numerous long-standing issues that could not be resolved for this version of the plugin. Please continue to create replication tasks using the TrueNAS web interface.
* Cloned datastores always use the first listed interface ([VCP-113](https://jira.ixsystems.com/projects/VCP/issues/VCP-113)). To work around this issue, either ensure the original datastore is using the desired interface or create a new datastore instead of making a clone.
* Plugin deployment complains about logging system error ([VCP-114](https://jira.ixsystems.com/browse/VCP-114)). This is a cosmetic error based on initial plugin deployments creating an empty log file. There is no impact to installing or using the vCenter Plugin.
