---
title: "11.2-RELEASE"
weight: 36
aliases: [/releasenotes/core/freenas/11.2/11.2/]
---

**December 5, 2018**

We are pleased to announce the general availability of FreeNAS 11.2-RELEASE. This release represents a significant development and testing effort. Existing users are encouraged to read these Release Notes thoroughly, including the Updating Recommendations section, before updating to become familiar with the potential impacts of the update. New users are encouraged to install this release in order to take advantage of the many improvements and bug fixes introduced in 11.2. As always, please report any bugs to [**iXsystems & FreeNAS Redmine**](https://redmine.ixsystems.com/issues/) page.

To update to this release, select the 11.2-STABLE train in System → Update. To install this release, refer to the FreeNAS [**download**](https://www.freenas.org/download/) page for installation instructions and to download the installation file.

## 11.2 Major Features

The login screen defaults to the new, Angular-based UI. Users who wish to continue to use the classic UI can select “LEGACY WEB INTERFACE” in the login screen.

Beginning with this release, there are two published versions of the 11.2 User Guide: one contains the screenshots for the new UI using the default dark theme and the other contains the screenshots for the legacy UI. The availability of both versions of the Guide is to assist users as they become familiar with the new UI during the transition period before the legacy UI is deprecated in a future release. Both versions contain a menu selector, making it easy to navigate between different versions of the Guide.

The rewrite from the old API to the new middlewared continues. Once the API stabilizes and the rewrite is complete, api.freenas.org will be deprecated and replaced by the new API documentation. In the mean time, to see the API documentation for the new middleware, log into the new UI, click on the URL for the FreeNAS system in your browser’s location bar, and add /api/docs to the end of that URL.

The boot loader has changed from GRUB to the native FreeBSD boot loader. This should resolve several issues that some users experienced with GRUB. GRUB was introduced as a temporary solution until the FreeBSD boot loader had full support for boot environments, which it now has.

The Plugins and Jails backend has switched from warden to iocage and warden will no longer receive bug fixes. The new UI will automatically use iocage to create and manage Plugins and Jails. Users are encouraged to recreate any existing Plugins and Jails using the new UI to ensure that they are running the latest supported application versions.

Virtual Machines are more crash-resistant. When a guest is started, the amount of available memory is checked and an initialization error will occur if there is insufficient system resources. When a guest is stopped, its resources are returned to the system. In addition, the UEFI boot menu fix allows Linux kernels 4.15 and higher to boot properly.

Cloud Sync Tasks provides configuration options to encrypt data before it is transmitted and to keep it in the encrypted format while stored on the cloud. The filenames can also be encrypted. Additionally, support has been added for these providers: Amazon Cloud Drive, Box, Dropbox, FTP, Google Drive, HTTP, Hubic, Mega, Microsoft OneDrive, pCloud, SFTP, WebDAV, and Yandex.

Support has been added for Self-Encrypting Drives (SEDs).

OpenZFS is up-to-date with Illumos and slightly ahead due to support for sorted scrubs which were ported from ZFS on Linux. Notable improvements include channel programs, data disk removal, more resilient volume import, the ability to import a pool with missing vdevs, pool checkpoints, improved compressed ARC performance, and ZIL batching. Note that many of these improvements need further testing so have not yet been integrated into the UI.

## Updating Recommendations

While most updates “just work” it is possible that certain hardware or software configurations will experience issues. This section summarizes common issues and how to resolve them.

Before updating, save a copy of your configuration: System → General → Save Config. If you really care about your existing boot environments (many users don’t), replicate them to another system.

## Resolving Boot Issues

While the new boot loader fixes boot issues for some hardware, it may result in boot issues for other hardware. If the updated system does not boot, do not panic as your data is still intact. To resolve:

It is possible that the copy operations from the update stressed the boot device, which is rather common for USB media. To test this, perform a fresh install of 11.2-RELEASE on a new boot device. If that succeeds, restore your saved config.

If a fresh install fails, try it one more time while selecting the other option in the Boot Mode screen of the installer. In other words, if it failed with the UEFI option, try the BIOS option and vice versa. If that install works, restore your saved config.
If the fresh install still fails, perform a fresh install of your previous version. Previous versions are available from the FreeNAS [**download**](https://www.freenas.org/download/) page and restore your saved config. This will bring the system back to its original version and configuration, before you attempted to update. Then, go to System → Support and open a ticket so a developer can help determine which hardware is preventing the system from booting.

**Upgrading the Storage Pools**

After the update, you may receive an alert indicating “New feature flags are available”. The User Guide explicitly states a number of caveats to consider before updating an existing pool to the latest feature flags. To put this into perspective, ask yourself the following questions before updating the pool:

Will I ever want to boot into an earlier version of FreeNAS?
Will I ever want to use these storage disks on another operating system that supports OpenZFS?
Until you are sure that the answer to both questions is “no”, ignore (or dismiss) the alert and do not update the pool.

## Updating Existing Jails or Plugins

Existing warden (legacy) plugins and jails must be managed while logged into the legacy UI. Since warden plugins/jails are now deprecated, the install and update functions have been disabled in the legacy UI. However, you can continue to start and stop plugins/jails, access their shell, and manage their mount points.

Warden (legacy) jails/plugins created in earlier versions and iocage (new) jails/plugins created in 11.2 can coexist and FreeNAS supports running multiple versions of the same plugins. This allows users to continue to use legacy plugins/jails until they have the opportunity to install and test replacements for their legacy versions using the new UI.

While a migration script is available, no script can account for every possible software configuration. If you decide to try the script, bear in mind that you will want to thoroughly test the functionality of the migrated plugin/jail before deleting the original plugin/jail. The recommended method is to reinstall plugins/jails from scratch using the new UI, copy or recreate any plugins/jails configurations, test that the new plugins/jails work as expected, and delete the legacy plugins/jails when everything is working as expected.

## Known Issues

These plugins have been removed from the **Plugins > Available listing** of the new UI as they have failed qualification:
```
Sabnzbd
Sickrage
TinyTinyRSS
```

All other plugins have been tested as working,. Refer to 58482 for the RELEASE plugin versions, testing details, and associated tickets.

## Changelog

FreeNAS 11.2-RELEASE includes the Changelogs from the BETA and Release Candidate (RC) versions:

https://www.ixsystems.com/blog/library/freenas-11-2-beta1/
https://www.ixsystems.com/blog/library/freenas-11-2-beta2/
https://www.ixsystems.com/blog/library/freenas-11-2-beta3/
https://www.ixsystems.com/blog/library/freenas-11-2-rc1/
https://www.ixsystems.com/blog/library/freenas-11-2-rc2/
As well as these tickets:

+ 27878	Bug	 Rework L2ARC encryption warning in User Guide
+ 41220	Feature	 Generate krb5.conf and keytab files using middleware
+ 53127	Bug	 Ensure Sonarr and Radarr permissions allow plugin to update
+ 54693	Bug	 Always free memory before swapping
+ 54879	Bug	 Improve wording of “Save Configuration” dialog in new UI
+ 55980	Bug	 Prevent setting record or block sizes below 4K and warn when changing record size
+ 56772	Bug	 Use inbuilt validator cron-parser for validating Cron Jobs and SMART Tests
+ 57021	Bug	 Update sysutils/uefi-edk2-bhyve to 0.2
+ 57060	Feature	 Update RancherOS to 1.4.2
+ 57105	Bug	 Add -d removable for all S.M.A.R.T. devices
+ 57429	Bug	 Fix typo in the Restart dialogue when updating
+ 57825	Bug	 Put anchors at end of generated URLs
+ 58086	Bug	 Fix incorrect wording in LDAP section of Guide
+ 58320	Bug	 Prevent changing an existing user’s UID in new UI
+ 58365	Bug	 Fallback to using the jail’s freebsd_version if RELEASE fails
+ 58407	Bug	 Clarify meaning of “redirect stdout/stderr” under Cron Jobs of new UI
+ 58434	Bug	 Use consistent bandwidth labels in Dashboard of new UI
+ 58455	Bug	 Rename BitTorrent Sync plugin to Resilio Sync
+ 58482	Feature	 Update iocage Plugins for 11.2-RELEASE
+ 58644	Bug	 Improve service_monitor handling for unrecoverable AD
+ 58653	Bug	 Fix kernel panic due to leak in physical memory accounting
+ 58662	Bug	 Fix creation of vlan parent interface when using netcli
+ 58767	Bug	 Initialize security for NFSv4 shares
+ 58788	Bug	 Validate AD config file before trying to configure Kerberos
+ 58833	Bug	 Overlay Zoneminder my.cnf file to allow cameras to be added
+ 59238	Bug	 Fix entity tree component
+ 59382	Feature	 General UI improvements for RELEASE
+ 59571	Bug	 Add support for Azure Blob storage
+ 59616	Bug	 Fix pool.import_disk rsync stderr being lost
+ 59985	Bug	 Fix multiple samba CVEs
+ 60279	Bug	 Fix FreeBSD-SA-18:13.nfs
+ 60927	Bug	 Fix multi-select bug in new UI
+ 61071	Bug	 Add post-install script for Zoneminder Plugin
+ 61254	Bug	 Remove pre-production warning for 11.2-RELEASE
+ 61137	Bug	 More form select fixes

Tickets can be viewed at the [**iXsystems & FreeNAS Redmine**](https://redmine.ixsystems.com/issues/) page.
