---
title: "12.0-U5.1"
weight: 6
aliases:
  - /releasenotes/core/12.0u5.1/
---

(View included [12.0-U5.0 changes]({{< relref "12.0U5.md" >}}))

{{< include file="static/includes/General/LifecycleTable.html.part" html="true" >}}

**August 17, 2021**

iXsystems is pleased to announce the general availability of TrueNAS 12.0-U5.1!
This is a performance improvement release that includes middleware updates for disk management operations.
This release builds on all the bug fixes and quality of life improvements from the [TrueNAS 12.0-U5 release]({{< relref "12.0U5.md" >}}).

With TrueNAS 12.0-U5.1, users will notice improved responsiveness with storage pool operations.
This improvement applies to every kind of TrueNAS deployment, but those deployments with larger disk counts will see the greatest benefit.

TrueNAS CORE and Enterprise users are encouraged to upgrade their systems to get these latest performance improvements.
Enterprise customers can contact iX Support for assistance with upgrading their TrueNAS systems.

{{< expand "Contacting iXsystems Support" "v" >}}
{{< include file="static/includes/General/iXsystemsSupportContact.html.part" html="true" >}}
{{< /expand >}}

## TrueNAS 12.0-U5.1 Changelog

### Improvement

* <a href="https://jira.ixsystems.com/browse/NAS-111868" target="_blank">NAS-111868</a> - Improve performance of middleware pool management

## Known Issues

<body class="ql-editor ql-editor-view" style="font-size:14px;">
  <html>
    <body>
      <table width="100%">
        <thead>
          <tr>
			<th>Key</th>
			<th>Summary</th>
			<th>Workaround</th>
          </tr>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
	  <tr>
		  <td></td>
		  <td>Asigra Plugin Upgrades</td>
		  <td>Asigra users running version <b>14.2.0.2 or earlier</b> requires a TrueNAS CLI upgrade procedure to update to a new plugin version. In the TrueNAS web interface, open the **Shell** and enter <code>iocage upgrade asigra-plugin-name</code>, replacing <code>asigra-plugin-name</code> with whatever unique name was created for the plugin.</td>
          <tr>
			<td><a href="https://jira.ixsystems.com/browse/NAS-106992" target="_blank">NAS-106992</a></td>
			<td>Persistent L2ARC is disabled by default.</td>
			<td>While the underlying issues have been fixed, this setting continues to be disabled by default for additional performance investigation. To manually reactivate persistent L2ARC, log in to the TrueNAS Web Interface, go to <b>System > Tunables</b>, and add a new tunable with these values:
  			  <ul>
			    <li>Type = <code>sysctl</code></li>
			    <li>Variable = <code>vfs.zfs.l2arc.rebuild_enabled</code></li>
			    <li>Value = <code>1</code></li>
  			  </ul>
			</td>
          </tr>
          <tr>
			<td></td>
            <td>TrueNAS "root" user account cannot be an SMB user.</td>
			<td>This is an intentional change to improve software security and suitability for deployment in a variety of environments. Update the SMB configuration to use a different user account.</td>
          </tr>
        </tbody>
      </table>
    </body>
  </html>
