&NewLine;

There are many new features and continued improvements to the TrueNAS SCALE experience:

{{< columns >}}

* New [SMB]({{< ref "SMBSharesScreens.md#smb-status-screens" >}}) and [NFS]({{< ref "NFSSharesScreens.md#nfs-sessions-screen" >}}) status pages for active session monitoring and administration.

* New [Auditing]({{< ref "AuditingSCALE" >}}) feature! Administrators can keep and view audit logs about SMB clients and other TrueNAS UI authorization and account activity.

* New support for FreeIPA configurations is added to the [LDAP credentials]({{< ref "ConfigLDAPSCALE" >}}) fields!

* New Community feature: SCALE [Sandboxes]({{< ref "/SCALETutorials/Apps/Sandboxes" >}}) provide a similar functionality to TrueNAS CORE jails or Linux LXC containers.

* New Community feature: unsupported [Developer mode]({{< ref "DeveloperMode" >}}) for customizing TrueNAS.

* New [Dashboard widget]({{< ref "SCALEDashboard.md#backup-tasks-widget" >}}) for monitoring and quick creation of data backup tasks.

* Exposed Netdata UI under **Reporting > Netdata** for deeper real-time introspection and reporting on system performance.

<--->
* Reworked Share creation forms for a faster and smoother experience.

* Reworked Cloud backup form to improve the user experience.

* Expanded [feedback system]({{< ref "/SCALEUIReference/TopToolbar/#how-would-you-rate-this-page" >}}) for rating UI screens and creating TrueNAS project bug reports or improvement suggestions.

* ZFS ARC memory allocations are updated and behave identically to TrueNAS CORE.

* New privilege levels for TrueNAS [administrative users]({{< ref "AdminRoles" >}}) for greater system security hardening.

* Linux kernel and NVIDIA driver updates.

* Improved performance for SMB Shares with directories containing [large file counts](https://www.truenas.com/docs/references/performance/smbfiletimes/).

* [Third-Party SMB Data Migration]({{< ref "DataMigrationSyncthing" >}}) from external sources.

{{< /columns >}}
