&NewLine;

{{< hint type=important icon=gdoc_notification title="Virtual Machines and Containers in TrueNAS 25.10" >}}

TrueNAS 25.04.0 introduced support for **Containers** (named Instances in pre-25.04.2 releases), enabling lightweight isolation similar to jails in TrueNAS CORE.

In TrueNAS 25.04.2 (and later) virtual machines are created and appear on the **Virtual Machines** screen.
Legacy VMs created in 25.04.0 or 25.04.1 using the Instances feature and some VMs migrated to those versions from TrueNAS 24.10 continue to function and appear on the **Containers** screen.
Legacy VMs on the **Containers** screen do not autostart in 25.10 or later.

TrueNAS 25.04.2 reintroduces "classic virtualization" with the Virtual Machines feature.

Virtual machines in 25.04.2 (or later) are created and appear on the **Virtual Machines** screen.

VMs created using the Instances feature continue to function and appear on the **Containers** screen.

VMs created in 24.10 or earlier are located depending on migration path:

{{< expand "Previously migrated to 25.04.1" "v" >}}
- VMs with Zvols that were imported using the **Move** option appear on the **Containers** screen.
- VMs with Zvols that were imported using the **Clone** option appear on the **Virtual Machines** screen.
{{< /expand >}}

{{< expand "Direct upgrade to 25.04.2" "v" >}}
- VMs on 24.10 systems that upgrade directly to 25.04.2 (skipping 25.04.1) automatically migrate to the **Virtual Machines** screen without manual action.
{{< /expand >}}

You do not need to migrate existing VMs from the **Containers** screen to the **Virtual Machines** screen at this time.
For information on on migrating your zvol storage volume from an Instances/Containter VM to a new VM created in 25.10 or later, see **[Migrating Instance VMs]({{< ref "/SCALETutorials/VirtualMachines" >}})**.

{{< /hint >}}

{{< include file="/static/includes/InstanceWarning.md" >}}
