&NewLine;

There are many new features and continued improvements to the TrueNAS SCALE experience:

{{< columns >}}

* New [SMB]({{< relref "SMBSharesScreens.md#smb-status-screens" >}}) and [NFS]({{< relref "NFSSharesScreens.md#nfs-sessions-screen" >}}) status pages for active session monitoring and administration.

* New [Auditing]({{< relref "AuditingSCALE.md" >}}) feature! Administrators can keep and view audit logs about SMB clients and other TrueNAS UI authorization and account activity.

* New support for FreeIPA configurations is added to the [LDAP credentials]({{< relref "ConfigLDAPSCALE.md" >}}) fields!

* New Community feature: SCALE [Sandboxes]({{< relref "/SCALETutorials/Apps/Sandboxes.md" >}}) provide a similar functionality to TrueNAS CORE jails or Linux LXC containers.

* New Community feature: unsupported [Developer mode]({{< relref "DeveloperMode.md" >}}) for customizing TrueNAS.

* New [Dashboard widget]({{< relref "SCALEDashboard.md#backup-tasks-widget" >}}) for monitoring and quick creation of data backup tasks.

<!-- Commenting out Syncthing Migration Content until Enterprise app updated. Expected before RC.1 or .0. Keyword: SyncDraft  -->
<!-- Remove comments and fix relref link below when ready to make live -->
<!-- 
* Third-Party SMB Data Migration relref "DataMigrationSyncthing.md" from external sources
-->
<--->
* Reworked Share creation forms for a faster and smoother experience.

* Reworked Cloud backup form to improve the user experience.

* Expanded [feedback system]({{< relref "/SCALEUIReference/TopToolbar/_index.md#how-would-you-rate-this-page" >}}) for rating UI screens and creating TrueNAS project bug reports or improvement suggestions.

* ZFS ARC memory allocations are updated and behave identically to TrueNAS CORE.

* New privilege levels for TrueNAS [administrative users]({{< relref "AdminRoles.md" >}}) for greater system security hardening.

* Linux kernel and NVIDIA driver updates.

* Improved performance for SMB Shares with directories containing [large file counts](https://www.truenas.com/docs/references/performance/smbfiletimes/).

* Exposed Netdata UI under Reporting -> Netdata for deeper real-time introspection and reporting on system performance.

{{< /columns >}}
