---
title: "TrueNAS 11.1-U4 Release Notes"
description: "TrueNAS 11.1-U4 Release Notes"
---

## TrueNAS 11.1-U4

### March 30, 2018
We are pleased to announce the general availability of TrueNAS 11.1-U4. This release delivers many performance improvements, new and updated drivers, new features and enhancements, and bug fixes.

### Operating System

TrueNAS 11.1-U4 is based on the FreeBSD 11.1-STABLE operating system, which includes numerous performance improvements, new and updated drivers, new features, and bug fixes.

### OpenZFS

OpenZFS has seen many improvements. Users will notice a significant speedup when listing a large number of snapshots or deleting multiple snapshots and large files.

The scrub and resilver algorithm implement substantial speed improvements which will be most noticeable on fragmented pools.

Resilver Priority has been added to Storage. Resilvering, which rebuilds the storage array, can now be run at a higher priority at configurable times and days of the week.

### IPMI

The Identify Light button has been added to identify a system in a rack by flashing its Unit ID light.

### Services

Samba has been patched to address CVE-2018-1050 and CVE-2018-1057.
The Netdata real-time performance and monitoring system has been added.
The SNMP MIB has many improvements, including the ability to send SNMP traps for new alerts.
Time Machine

Support for per-backup OS X Time Machine quotas has been added.

### Alerts

The Send Test Alert button has been added to Alert Services, making testing of notification services simpler.

### Changelog

TrueNAS 11.1-U4 includes these Changelogs:

https://docs.ixsystems.com/hub/additional-topics/legacy/fn-legacy-docs/release-notes/fn-11.1/
https://docs.ixsystems.com/hub/additional-topics/legacy/fn-legacy-docs/release-notes/fn-11.1-u1/
https://docs.ixsystems.com/hub/additional-topics/legacy/fn-legacy-docs/release-notes/fn-11.1-u2/
https://docs.ixsystems.com/hub/additional-topics/legacy/fn-legacy-docs/release-notes/fn-11.1-u3/
https://docs.ixsystems.com/hub/additional-topics/legacy/fn-legacy-docs/release-notes/fn-11.1-u4/

Additionally, these bug fixes and features are specific to TrueNAS:

There have been several bug fixes and new alerts for HA. The active node will now wait for the passive node to stabilize before turning the HA icon green. The system will indicate that you cannot destroy or detach a volume when failover is enabled and warn before deleting a pool that is required for HA to function. Additionally, the system will warn when locking the last volume as this will prevent failover from functioning correctly. An alert will also be generated when the passive node is unreachable via the failover interface and the system will not allow a failed passive node to take the active node’s IP address. A warning will be issued when removing the last HA critical interface. Finally, the system will alert when the boot volume of the passive node is not healthy.

Several alerts have been added to provide advance notification with regards to licensing. These include email notifications at 14, 30, 90, and 180 days before support contract expiration and at support contract expiration. Additionally, an alert will be generated when the number of connected JBODs exceeds the license.

The System Serial, System Product, and License fields have been added to System -> Information. For HA configurations, the System Serial will also include the serial number of the other HA node.

The View Enclosure screen has moved from Storage -> Volumes to System.

The “Factory Restore” button has been renamed to “Reset Configuration Defaults”.

The PDF version of the Guide has been moved from Support to the Guide icon which now provides a drop-down to select either the HTML or the PDF version of the Guide.