---
title: "11.3-U5"
weight: 4
aliases: [/releasenotes/core/truenas/11.3/11.3u5/]
---

**October 13, 2020**

iXsystems is pleased to release Update 5 for TrueNAS 11.3!
TrueNAS 11.3-U5 is a maintenance release that includes more than 100 bug fixes and quality of life improvements from the FreeNAS 11.3-U5 release and a couple bug fixes to failover functionality.

TrueNAS 11.3-U5 is now the most stable and performant version of TrueNAS 11.3.
TrueNAS customers are encouraged to update immediately!
iXsystems Support is available for TrueNAS customers that would like assistance with the update process.

## Bug Fixes

<body class="ql-editor ql-editor-view" style="font-size:14px;"><html><head></head><body><table width="100%"><thead><tr><th>Key</th><th>Summary</th><th>Component/s</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><a href="https://jira.ixsystems.com/browse/NAS-107121" target="_blank">NAS-107121</a></td><td>"failover_aliases" and "failover_virtual_aliases" are being overwritten as empty arrays</td><td>WebUI</td></tr><tr><td><a href="https://jira.ixsystems.com/browse/NAS-107120" target="_blank">NAS-107120</a></td><td>change failover_vhid to type "select" instead of "input"</td><td>WebUI</td></tr><tr><td><a href="https://jira.ixsystems.com/browse/NAS-106840" target="_blank">NAS-106840</a></td><td>setting invalid VHID value fails silently.</td><td>HA,WebUI</td></tr></tbody></table></body></html>

## Known Issues

The UI can become unresponsive after upgrading.
If this occurs, clear the browser cache and refresh the page (**Shift + F5**).

Some plugins are not showing their version ([NAS-106882](https://jira.ixsystems.com/browse/NAS-106882)).
There is a patch to fix versioning for many of the available plugins, but some are incapable of reporting their correct version.
These unversioned plugins have been moved to the “Community” plugins list for TrueNAS 12.0 ([NAS-106610](https://jira.ixsystems.com/browse/NAS-106610)).

Due to numerous improvements in the replication engine and ZFS, FreeNAS/TrueNAS 11.3 will no longer replicate to FreeNAS/TrueNAS 9.10 systems (or earlier).
Solution: update the destination system to FreeNAS/TrueNAS 11.3 or newer.
