---
title: "11.1-U7"
weight: 5
aliases: [/releasenotes/core/truenas/11.1/11.1u7/]
---

**February 11, 2019**

We are pleased to announce the general availability of TrueNAS 11.1-U7. This bug fix release addresses the following security vulnerabilities:

NFS has been patched to address FreeBSD-SA-18:13.nfs
Samba 4.7 has been patched to address recent CVEs
The *Enable SMB1 Support* checkbox has been added to **Services > SMB**. However, customers are cautioned to not use SMB1.

The Guide icon in the web UI now points to the online HTML documentation. The PDF version can be downloaded for offline reading.

Space reservation for VAAI for NAS has been removed. Thin volumes should be used when using an NFS datastore with vCenter.

vCenter has been removed from the web UI and will be replaced with an updated, deployable plugin which supports recent ESXi versions. Contact support for more information about obtaining, deploying, and using the vCenter plugin.

Before updating to this bug fix release, contact iXsystems Technical Support for a pre-update health check and to answer any technical questions regarding this update. You can contact Support by calling 1-855-GREP-4-iX or emailing support@ixsystems.com.

## Changelog
 
TrueNAS 11.1-U7 includes the [FreeNAS 11.1-U7 changelog]({{< relref "/CORE/ReleaseNotes/FreeNAS/11.1/11.1U7.md" >}}) plus these TrueNAS-specific features:

+ 26633	Bug	Disable space reservation for VAAI for NFS and remove mention in Guide
+ 47899	Bug	Avoid simultaneous requests when querying power supply status of M-Series appliances
+ 54747	Feature	Add “Mark interface as Critical for Failover?” option to netcli
+ 56661	Bug	Sync TrueNAS enclosure on vdev removal
+ 58059	Bug	Provide distinction between license and EULA on TrueNAS systems
+ 60138	Feature	Remove vCenter from TrueNAS UI
+ 63585	Bug	Fix copy/paste error that prevented start of Asigra service
+ 65034	Bug	Remove redundant “Upgrade to Silver/Gold support for this feature”” button at bottom of Proactive Support page
+ 65124	Bug	Remove unnecessary “camcontrol rescan all” call
+ 68034	Bug	Remove system dataset warning alert from TrueNAS HA appliances
+ 71451	Bug	Use correct location for Asigra DS-Operator in Guide
+ 72991	Bug	Clarify Asigra DS-Operator web interface requirements and service description in Guide

Tickets can be viewed at the [**iXsystems & FreeNAS Redmine**](https://redmine.ixsystems.com/issues/) page.
