---
title: "11.1-U5"
weight: 9
aliases: [/releasenotes/core/truenas/11.1/11.1u5/]
---

**June 12, 2018**

We are pleased to announce the general availability of TrueNAS 11.1-U5. This release introduces Self-Encrypting Drive (SED) support. Refer to this article for an overview of the SED implementation and how to manage these devices on a TrueNAS system.

This version includes the Changelogs listed at:

* [FN 11.1 U4]({{< relref "/CORE/ReleaseNotes/FreeNAS/11.1/11.1U4.md" >}})
* [FN 11.1 U5]({{< relref "/CORE/ReleaseNotes/FreeNAS/11.1/11.1U5.md" >}})

Additionally, TrueNAS 11.1-U5 provides further improvements to HA. For HA configurations using encrypted pools, the pools are properly detached when demoting an active node to passive or when a successful failover occurs. Should both nodes power cycle, the UI will prompt for the passphrase, allowing the pools to become available.

For systems using the Netdata service, this service is automatically restarted after a failover event. For all HA configurations, logging events for both the active and passive controllers are logged to stable storage.

The End-User Agreement (EULA) has been updated. During initial setup, the login screen will display the EULA with options to agree to the terms or to cancel the EULA display. Cancelling the display will still provide access to the GUI but the EULA will display on subsequent logins until the user agrees to the terms. The EULA is available online.

## Errata for TrueNAS 11.1-U5.1

TrueNAS 11.1-U5.1,released on June 28, adds a hot fix to 11.1-U5 to ensure that the smartd service properly reloads and stops after an HA failover.
