---
title: "11.3-RC1"
weight: 10
aliases: [/releasenotes/core/truenas/11.3/11.3rc1/]
---

**February 26, 2020**

iXsystems is pleased to announce the availability of TrueNAS 11.3-RC1!
Release Candidate 1 is based on FreeNAS 11.3-U1 which includes minor bugfixes from FreeNAS 11.3-RELEASE.

TrueNAS 11.3 represents another major advancement in the quality and functionality of the leading Open Storage platform. TN 11.3 supports the very popular API and Web UI improvements of the previous FreeNAS release. It also introduces easy-setup wizards, major replication improvements, and over 1400 other improvements from TrueNAS 11.2-U8!

Key Features of TrueNAS 11.3 include the following major improvements:

ZFS Replication: >8X performance (5TB/hr), Parallel tasks, Auto-resume

Simplified Setup with Wizards: iSCSI, SMB, Pools, Networking, Replication

SMB improvements: User quotas via AD, Shadow copies, ACL manager, security patches.

Dashboard and Reporting: Faster response, more relevant data

Configuration Management: API enables config save and audits

WireGuard VPNs: Secure networking to remote systems

Enclosure and High-Availability graphical management screens

To see a full list of all improvements that are added with TrueNAS 11.3, please see the FreeNAS/TrueNAS Jira Project.

Enterprise Strategy Group (ESG) [validated the performance and cost benefits](https://www.ixsystems.com/esg/?utm_source=dynamic&utm_medium=press&utm_campaign=freenas+11-3+release) of TrueNAS 11.3 with extensive testing. ESG concluded that “The combination of ZFS, Open Source, and a lean sales force provides efficiencies that enable iXsystems to offer high performance, feature-rich solutions at high value price points. We calculated a significant delta. Based on our testing and analysis, we found that iXsystems can typically offer up to double the performance at half the cost of their major competitors.”

A major investment in automated testing over the past 18 months has ensured significant improvements in software quality and ease of use relative to previous releases. This has been confirmed by the very popular FreeNAS 11.3 release. Customers should contact support@ixsystems.com if they are interested in the TrueNAS 11.3 upgrade or sales@ixsystems.com to purchase a new TrueNAS storage product.
