---
title: "23.10 (Cobia) Upgrades"
description: "Overview and processes for upgrading from earlier SCALE major versions and from 23.10 to newer major versions."
weight: 35
---

{{< toc >}}

There are a variety of options for upgrading to SCALE 23.10.

{{< include file="/_includes/23.10UpgradeMethods.md" >}}

See the [Software Status page](https://www.truenas.com/software-status/) for iXsystems' software version recommendations based on user type.

Update the system to the latest maintenance release of the installed major version before attempting to upgrade to a new TrueNAS SCALE major version.

{{< hint type=warning title="Bluefin Configuration File Compatibility" >}}
System configuration files generated from releases before 22.12.4 (Bluefin) are not compatible with 23.10 (Cobia).
When available, update the system to 22.12.4 (Bluefin), resolve any migrations from deprecated services to replacement apps, and download a fresh system configuration file before attempting to upgrade.
{{< /hint >}}

## Upgrading from the Web Interface

Log in to the SCALE web interface and go to **System Settings > Update**.
The screen shows which update train is active for the install.

{{< truetable >}}
| Train Type | Name | Notes | 
|------------|------|-------|
| Stable Release | TrueNAS-SCALE-Bluefin | |
| Prerelease | TrueNAS-SCALE-Cobia-BETA | Intended for early testing and feature previews. Do not use a prerelease train for production use. |
| Nightly | TrueNAS-SCALE-Cobia-Nightlies | Adventurous users with disposable hardware only. Requires nightly [.iso file](https://download.truenas.com/truenas-scale-cobia-nightly/) upgrade to switch to this train. |
{{< /truetable >}}

When a new version is available, open the **Current Train** dropdown and select the desired release option.
TrueNAS begins checking for update files from the new train and stages any updates available from that location.

Alternately, uploading a <file>.update</file> file and manually updating switches the system between train types.
{{< expand "Manual Update Process (Click to expand)" "v" >}}
{{< include file="/content/_includes/ManualUpdates.md" >}}
{{< /expand >}}

Changing trains is a one-way operation!
Do not change to a prerelease or nightly release unless the system is intended to permanently remain on early versions and is not storing any critical data.

## Upgrading when Apps are Deployed
If upgrading from Bluefin to Cobia when applications are deployed, the upgrade is a one-way operation.

You cannot return to or roll back to an earlier SCALE release by simply activating an earlier release boot environment.
You also cannot easily roll back app on-disk data after updating the structure to Cobia. 
After upgrading to Cobia, deployed apps do not work in the earlier release boot environment because the path to ***system dataset*/ix-applications/docker** does not exist in Cobia and is removed from the earlier release as a result of the upgrade. 

To rollback to an earlier SCALE release and bring your applications back online, before you upgrade to Cobia you must have snapshots of all datasets apps use, then create and run replication tasks to back up those snapshots. 
After upgrading you use these backed up snapshots and replication tasks to restore the early release to a state where you can get apps running again. 

You need pre-upgrade snapshots of the **ix-applications** dataset and a recursive snapshot of **ix-applications** to get the **docker** dataset, and then snapshots of all datasets apps use as host paths.
Without these snapshots, to downgrade to Bluefin requires deleting the app(s) and redeploying it/them. 

Replication tasks should copy the snapshots to a remote server used for backups of your data. 
If you do not have a remote server to store backed up snapshots, you can create a new pool and dataset on the system but this is not recommended or best practices.

When you rollback the local server, copy the snapshots from the remote server to the local server but do not save the snapshots in the **ix-applications** dataset. Create a new dataset on the same pool as the **ix-applications** dataset (the pool apps use).

### Before Upgrading

1. Verify your Bluefin apps are running (not stopped or in the deploying state), and that you have access to your data and the application web portals. 

2. Create and run a replication tasks to a remote server. 
   See [Setting Up a Remote Replication Task](https://www.truenas.com/docs/scale/scaletutorials/dataprotection/replication/remotereplicationscale/) for more information. 
   Before upgrading to Cobia create and run replicated snapshots for:

   * The **ix-applications** dataset to restore the migration json files to the earlier version.
   * A recursive replication of the **ix-applications** dataset to see the docker snapshot.
   * Snapshots of any datasets apps use for storage, such as the MinIO app **data** dataset.

   If a Bluefin apps uses host path(s) to existing datasets, such as with the MinIO and the **/data** dataset, create and run remote replication tasks for these datasets. 
   If you nested these datasets for apps under a parent dataset, set up a recursive remote replication of the parent dataset to create the snapshots of all the nested child datasets the apps use.

3. Upgrade to Cobia and save the configuration file. This is always recommended so you can restore your system configuration if necessary.

### Rolling Back to an Earlier SCALE Release
Do not replicate the snapshot back to the **ix-applications** dataset! 
Create a dataset or use an existing dataset on the same pool as the **ix-applications** dataset to hold these snapshots. 

1. Select the earlier release boot environment, make it the active boot environment, then reboot the system. 
   See [Managing Boot Environments](https://www.truenas.com/docs/scale/scaletutorials/systemsettings/managebootenvironscale/) for more information.

2. Go to the remote system and create and run a replication task to copy the snapshots back to the system you rolled back to an earlier SCALE release. 
   Alternatively, you can create a **Pull** replication task on the rolled-back system to bring the snapshots from the remote system to the local system. 

   Replicate each snapshot: the **ix-applications**, **ix-applications/docker**, and all snapshots of datasets set up as host paths in an application.
   
   If moving a snapshot from a different pool on the same server, replicate to a dataset on the same pool as the **ix-applications** dataset (for example, *tank/repsnaps* if **ix-applications** is in the *tank* pool). 
 
3. Go to the location of the snapshots, then:
   
   a. Roll back to the **ix-applications** snapshot taken before the upgrade. This updates the migration json files to the pre-upgrade version of the files.

   b. Locate the **ix-applications/docker** snapshot, click on it to expand it, then click **Clone to Dataset**. 
      Rename the dataset to ***poolname*/ix-applications/docker** to create the missing **docker** dataset from this snapshot.

   c. Roll back the snapshots for any dataset used as a host path in an application to the snapshots taken before the upgrade.

4. Go to **Shell** or open an SSH session and verify the docker dataset exists. Enter:

   <code>
   cd /mnt/<i>poolname</i>/ix-applications

   ls
   </code>

   Where *poolname* is the name of the pool assigned as the pool for applications to use and with the **ix-applications** dataset.

   The command output should now show the docker dataset.

5. Reboot the system.

The applications should now show on the **Applications > Installed Applications** screen. It takes a while for apps to return to the **Active** state.

After doing the above, if the applications do not show on the **Installed Applications** screen, either open an SSH session or go to **Shell** and run the command to remove the app_migrations.json and migrations.json files. Enter at the prompt:

`sudo rm -rf app_migrations.json`

When prompted, enter the admin password. 
Repeat the command for the migrations.json file.

{{< trueimage src="/images/SCALE/23.10/CLICommandToRemoveMigrateJsonFiles.png" alt="Removing the Json Migration Files" id="Removing the Json Migration Files" >}}

Reboot the system, then return to the **Applications > Installed Applications** screen. The applications should show. 
Wait for the apps to return to the **Active** state, then check the web portal for your apps.

## Migrating from CORE to SCALE

{{< hint type=warning >}}
SCALE is a new and maturing software.
CORE systems with High Availability enabled (HA) can not be upgraded to SCALE with HA.

Migrating from CORE to SCALE is not recommended when custom modifications have been made to the system database.
If any such modifications are present in CORE, these must be reverted before attempting a migration to SCALE.
CORE users should always exercise caution and [back up their data]({{< relref "/SCALETutorials/DataProtection/_index.md" >}}) and [system configuration]({{< relref "ManageSysConfigSCALE.md" >}}) before starting an upgrade.
{{< /hint >}}

{{< hint type=important >}}
Systems with TrueNAS CORE major version 12.0 or earlier must update to the latest CORE 13.0 release (e.g. 13.0-U5) prior to migrating to SCALE.
{{< /hint >}}

When appropriate, a CORE to SCALE migration is performed with an <file>.iso</file> and USB stick and preserves much of your existing CORE configuration.
See [Migrating from CORE]({{< relref "/GettingStarted/Migrate/MigratingFromCORE.md" >}}) for the USB migration process.
