---
title: "11.1-U5"
weight: 45
aliases: [/releasenotes/core/freenas/11.1/11.1u5/]
---

**May 30, 2018**

The FreeNAS development team is pleased to announce the availability of the fifth update to FreeNAS 11.1.

Since this is mostly a bug fix update, no changes have been made to the 11.1-U4 version of the Guide. This update did add preliminary support for Self-Encrypting Drives. Refer to Using Self-Encrypted Drives for instructions on how to configure these devices.

Due to the proximity of the upcoming 11.2-BETA1 release, the **Try the BETA UI!** link has been removed from the login screen for 11.1-U5. Users who wish to test the new UI before BETA1 is released are encouraged to create a clone of their current boot environment, switch to the nightlies train, and update to the nightlies. This ensures that there is a stable boot environment to reboot into and upgrade from, once BETA1 is released.

## Known Issues

If the *S.M.A.R.T.* service will not start,it is due to a known bug for some USB and SSD devices. To find the problematic device, look in /var/log/messages for a line similar to this one:

```
May 31 23:54:58 freenas smartd[13590]: Unable to register device /dev/da1
 (no Directive -d removable). Exiting.
```

In this example, /dev/da1 is the problematic device.  Then, go to **Storage > Volumes > View Disks**, select the problematic device, click its **Edit button**, and uncheck the Enable S.M.A.R.T. checkbox. You should now be able to start the S.M.A.R.T. service.

## ChangeLog

+ 24965	Feature	Add more command output to freenas-debug
+ 26484	Bug	Don’t write unneeded SNMP messages to /var/log/messages
+ 27936	Bug	More fixes to ensure /nonexistent directory is not created
+ 28585	Umbrella	Fix Samba memory leak in vfswrap_getwd()
+ 28862	Bug	Fix restoring old reporting values after a FreeNAS update
+ 29971	Feature	Improve logging in AD monitoring
+ 30213	Bug	Turn bootenv.delete into a job to prevent timeout related traceback when deleting boot enviroments
+ 30609	Bug	Do not log nginx errors to console
+ 30729	Bug	Speed up and clean up freenas-debug
+ 30768	Bug	Fix argument for SMB_VFS_NEXT_DISK_FREE in zfs_space VFS module
+ 30960	Bug	Display Samba version and git commit with smbd -v
+ 30990	Bug	Make lagg work with 100Gbps and 25Gbps interfaces that report extended media types
+ 31041	Feature	Add support for Self-Encrypting Drives
+ 31050	Bug	Do not spawn another thread on call_sync middleware call
+ 31059	Bug	Fix user.delete API call when DC is enabled
+ 31404	Bug	When using ADS disable DOSATTRIB to prevent Windows 7 “Invalid MS-DOS function” error
+ 31635	Bug	Correct PAM constants for AFP users authenticating as local user in LDAP environment
+ 31773	Bug	Migrate MTU settings when upgrading from 9.10.X to 11.1.X
+ 32868	Bug	Fix “Check Now” traceback error
+ 32880	Bug	Fix alert services traceback
+ 32943	Bug	Add -M to freenas-debug to check SATA DOM speed
+ 33045	Bug	Check if TrueNAS system needs an HBA firmware update
+ 33228	Feature	Add configured SMART, replication, and scrub tasks to freenas-debug
+ 33618	Bug	Do not show beta UI link
+ 33663	Bug	Alphabetize freenas-debug switches
+ 33786	Bug	Be less restrictive for NFS exports
+ 33855	Bug	Remove dtrace freenas-debug modules
+ 33885	Bug	Start dbus before netatalk
+ 33924	Bug	Add check to see if NIS is enabled
+ 33927	Bug	Fix typo in NFS section of freenas-debug
+ 33930	Bug	Fix traceback in system section of freenas-debug
+ 33957	Bug	Fix Python global interpreter lock with LDAP
+ 33987	Bug	Fix system.advanced traceback during system boot
+ 33993	Bug	Remove parallel routines for freenas-debug to prevent CPU spike

Tickets can be viewed at the [**iXsystems & FreeNAS Redmine**](https://redmine.ixsystems.com/issues/) page.
