---
title: "TrueNAS 12.0-U2.1"
---

**TrueNAS Quality Lifecycle**
<table class="blueTable">
	<thead>
		<tr>
			<th>Release Stage</th>
			<th>Completed QA Cycles</th>
			<th>Typical Use-case</th>
			<th>Description</th>
		</tr>
	</thead>
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td>NIGHTLY</td>
			<td>0</td>
			<td>Developers</td>
			<td>Incomplete</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>ALPHA</td>
			<td>1</td>
			<td>Testers</td>
			<td>Not much field testing</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>BETA</td>
			<td>2</td>
			<td>Enthusiasts</td>
			<td>Major Feature Complete, but expect some bugs</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>RC</td>
			<td>3</td>
			<td>Home Users</td>
			<td>Suitable for non-critical deployments</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>RELEASE</td>
			<td>4</td>
			<td>General Use</td>
			<td>Suitable for less complex deployments</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>U1</td>
			<td>5</td>
			<td>Business Use</td>
			<td>Suitable for more complex deployments</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>U2+</td>
			<td>6+</td>
			<td>Mission Critical</td>
			<td>Suitable for critical uptime deployments</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>
<hr>

**February 23, 2021**

iXsystems is pleased to announce the general availability of TrueNAS 12.0-U2.1! This is a minor hotpatch release to fix a few highly visible bugs before the TrueNAS Enterprise update train is enabled. The primary change is to clear up many of the “core file” alerts that are being generated for Enterprise customers. Please refer to the [TrueNAS 12.0-U2 Release Notes](https://www.truenas.com/docs/hub/intro/release-notes/12.0u2/) for more information on the changes included in this release.

With these fixes in place, the TrueNAS 12.0 update train for Enterprise customers is being activated! Enterprise customers are highly encouraged to [contact iXsystems Support](https://www.truenas.com/docs/hub/initial-setup/support/#contacting-ixsystems-support) to schedule an update window for their system to take advantage of the improved performance, stability, and security of TrueNAS 12.0.  

## TrueNAS 12.0-U2.1 Changelog

### Bug Fixes

<ul>
<li>[<a href='https://jira.ixsystems.com/browse/NAS-109434'>NAS-109434</a>] - Resolve issues with joining Active Directory Domains
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://jira.ixsystems.com/browse/NAS-109454'>NAS-109454</a>] - Do not generate corefiles alerts on enterprise product
</li>
<li>[<a href='https://jira.ixsystems.com/browse/NAS-109490'>NAS-109490</a>] - Use the correct verbiage when Applying Pending Updates for HA
</li>
</ul>

## Known Issues

<body class="ql-editor ql-editor-view" style="font-size:14px;">
    <html>
        <body>
            <table width="100%">
                <thead>
                  <tr>
<th>Key</th>
<th>Summary</th>
<th>Workaround</th>
       </tr>
                </thead>
                <tbody>
                	<tr>
<td><a href="https://jira.ixsystems.com/browse/NAS-106992" target="_blank">NAS-106992</a></td>
<td>Persistent L2ARC is disabled by default.</td>
<td>While the underlying issues have been fixed, this setting continues to be disabled by default for additional performance investigation. To manually reactivate persistent L2ARC, log in to the TrueNAS Web Interface, go to System > Tunables, and add a new tunable with these values:
<ul>
		    			<li>Type = sysctl</li>
		    			<li>Variable = vfs.zfs.l2arc.rebuild_enabled</li>
		    			<li>Value = 1</li>
		    		</ul>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
			<td></td>
			<td>TrueNAS "root" user account cannot be an SMB user.</td>
			<td>This is an intentional change to improve software security and suitability for deployment in a variety of environments. Update the SMB configuration to use a different user account.</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
<td><a href="https://jira.ixsystems.com/browse/NAS-109078" target="_blank">NAS-109078</a></td>
<td>TrueNAS Enterprise license summary may not list expansion shelves by name. This does not affect enclosure management or expansion shelf functionality.</td>
<td></td>
</tr>
      </tbody>
    </table>
  </body>
</html>
