---
title: "TrueNAS 12.0-U1.1"
---

**TrueNAS Quality Lifecycle**
<table class="blueTable">
	<thead>
		<tr>
			<th>Release Stage</th>
			<th>Completed QA Cycles</th>
			<th>Typical Use-case</th>
			<th>Description</th>
		</tr>
	</thead>
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td>NIGHTLY</td>
			<td>0</td>
			<td>Developers</td>
			<td>Incomplete</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>ALPHA</td>
			<td>1</td>
			<td>Testers</td>
			<td>Not much field testing</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>BETA</td>
			<td>2</td>
			<td>Enthusiasts</td>
			<td>Major Feature Complete, but expect some bugs</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>RC</td>
			<td>3</td>
			<td>Home Users</td>
			<td>Suitable for non-critical deployments</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>RELEASE</td>
			<td>4</td>
			<td>General Use</td>
			<td>Suitable for less complex deployments</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>U1</td>
			<td>5</td>
			<td>Business Use</td>
			<td>Suitable for more complex deployments</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>U2+</td>
			<td>6+</td>
			<td>Mission Critical</td>
			<td>Suitable for critical uptime deployments</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>
<hr>

**January 18, 2021**

iXsystems is pleased to announce the general availability of TrueNAS 12.0-U1.1! This is a minor version release to work around a critical ZFS issue that could impact systems with a rare but serious issue with data integrity under some very uncommon access patterns.  To date iXsystems has only observed these issues while running with some very specific virtualization workloads, however *ALL* TrueNAS 12.0 or higher users are encouraged to upgrade their systems immediately to 12.0-U1.1 out of an overabundance of caution.

TrueNAS Enterprise customers with 12.0 installed can always [contact iXsystems Support](/hub/initial-setup/support/#contacting-ixsystems-support) for assistance upgrading their TrueNAS deployments.

## TrueNAS 12.0-U1.1 Changelog

<ul>
<li><a href=”https://jira.ixsystems.com/browse/NAS-108627” target=_blank>NAS-108627</a> : While the underlying ZFS issue causing the instability is being resolved, there has been a temporary <a href="https://github.com/freenas/ports/pull/940/files" target="_blank">reversion of the ZFS CFA patch</a>. This means that Asynchronous Copy-on-Write is temporarily disabled in TrueNAS 12.0-U1.1, with the goal to re-enable this functionality in a later TrueNAS 12.0 update release after this issue has been fully resolved. </li>
</ul>

## Known Issues

<body class="ql-editor ql-editor-view" style="font-size:14px;">
    <html>
        <body>
            <table width="100%">
                <thead>
                  <tr><th>Key</th><th>Summary</th><th>Workaround</th></tr>
                </thead>
                <tbody>
                    <tr>
                    	<td><a href="https://jira.ixsystems.com/browse/NAS-107151" target="_blank">NAS-107151</a></td>
                    	<td>Replication fails between legacy TrueNAS 9.10 systems and 12.0-BETA1 systems.</td>
                    	<td>Due to numerous improvements in the replication engine and ZFS, FreeNAS/TrueNAS 9.10 systems (or earlier) can no longer replicate to or from TrueNAS 12.0. Update the legacy TrueNAS system to FreeNAS/TrueNAS 11.3 or newer.</td>
                    </tr>
                  	<tr>
                  		<td><a href="https://jira.ixsystems.com/browse/NAS-106992" target="_blank">NAS-106992</a></td>
                  		<td>Persistent L2ARC is disabled by default.</td>
                  		<td>While the underlying issues have been fixed, this setting continues to be disabled by default for additional performance investigation. To manually reactivate persistent L2ARC, log in to the TrueNAS Web Interface, go to System > Tunables, and add a new tunable with these values:
                  			<ul>
		    					<li>Type = sysctl</li>
		    					<li>Variable = vfs.zfs.l2arc.rebuild_enabled</li>
		    					<li>Value = 1</li>
		    				</ul>
		    			</td>
		    		</tr>
					<tr>
						<td></td>
						<td>TrueNAS "root" user account cannot be an SMB user.</td>
						<td>This is an intentional change to improve software security and suitability for deployment in a variety of environments. Update the SMB configuration to use a different user account.</td>
		    		</tr>
		    		<tr>
						<td><a href="https://jira.ixsystems.com/browse/NAS-108580" target="_blank">NAS-108580</td>
						<td>U1 update is incorrectly flagged as "Not a Production Release"</td>
						<td>This warning is a result of the Enterprise train not being activated yet and can be safely ignored. This will be automatically corrected on February 2nd, 2021 when the Enterprise update train is activated.</td>
				    </tr>
				    <tr>
						<td></td>
						<td>Performance regressions on some Intel and Chelsio Cards vs 11.X Series</td>
						<td>Our team is aware of some performance regressions when using Intel and Chelsio Network Devices on TrueNAS 12.0. These issues have been identified in upstream FreeBSD 12.2 and fixes are now pending to resolve these regressions. An update release will be issued in the near future.</td>
		    		</tr>
                </tbody>
            </table>
        </body>
    </html>
