---
title: "11.1-U6.3"
weight: 43
aliases: [/releasenotes/core/freenas/11.1/11.1u6.3/]
---

**December 26, 2018**

This patch release to FreeNAS 11.1-U6 primarily addresses a critical security vulnerability in Netatalk (CVE-2018-1160). While Netatalk is included in FreeNAS, this particular vulnerability only impacts those who have the AFP service enabled.

This patch release includes fixes from TrueNAS 11.1-U6.1 and 11.1-U6.2 that address several FreeBSD and Samba vulnerabilities. It also includes several SMART fixes.

FreeNAS 11.1-x users are encouraged to update to U6.3 using the instructions in the Guide. FreeNAS users who are running versions prior to FreeNAS 11.1-U6 are still vulnerable and should make a plan to update. Always backup your system configuration and verify the integrity of your backups before updating.

## Changelog

+ 34687	Bug	Add timeout for LDAP status calls
+ 39982	Bug	Optimize detection of best host in freenasldap.py for large environments
+ 42257	Bug	Keep AD in configured state even if service start fails
+ 42635	Bug	Fix calculating total file size when resuming download of updates
+ 43168	Bug	Fix SMART debug
+ 43712	Bug	Drop server minimum protocol to SMB2_02
+ 44240	Bug	Fix removal of SMART alerts
+ 44581	Bug	Fix bug that prevented deletion of Volume/Pool comments
+ 44625	Bug	Fix a Samba panic if fruit_access_check detects a locking conflict
+ 46821	Bug	Disable loop debug
+ 48721	Bug	Apply recent FreeBSD security patches
+ 50929	Bug	Increase maximum upload size for update file
+ 50973	Bug	Remove unused ports from installation and upgrade files
+ 59958	Bug	Fix multiple Samba CVEs
+ 64602	Bug	Address Netatalk CVE-2018-1160

Tickets can be viewed at the [**iXsystems & FreeNAS Redmine**](https://redmine.ixsystems.com/issues/) page.
